[Music]
[Applause]
I want to thank Swamiji for taking us
into such a wonderful spacious place it
was a little disorienting for me because
I went so deep with him that when he was
finishing I suddenly realized oh I have
a talk to give I also would like to
mention that the cosmology that emerges
in psychedelic research is not a new
cosmology it's the same cosmology that
has been discovered and emerges in the
deepest and the best mystical traditions
around the world we are simply looking
at a new set of technology a new set of
techniques for entering into these
states of consciousness it's a pleasure
to be with the time waiver community
again when I was with you last year I
spoke to you about a book I was writing
called diamonds from heaven this book
has now been finished and it will be
released this coming November the
publisher has given it a new title
Meredydd calling it LSD in the mind of
the universe it's not my favorite title
it will always be diamonds from heaven
for me a revolution begins with the
question what is it possible for human
beings to experience the work in the
global consciousness project is pushing
the edges of what is it possible for
human beings to experience
parapsychological research pushes that
question psychedelic research pushes
that question what is it possible for
human beings to experience the forward
to this book was written by urban lass
law firm so please is going to be with
us this afternoon bye
by television it is Ervin's work to
provide through his mastery of multiple
scientific disciplines to demonstrate
that there is a super implicit super
coherent cosmic intelligence that
informs time and space it's my
experience in my contention that
psychedelics when they are used in a
discipline and therapeutically
structured environment they give us the
opportunity to enter into a
progressively deepening experience a
deepening communion with this cosmic
intelligence now as you all know here
there is a revolution a renaissance in
psychedelic research taking place across
the world most psychedelic research
today is taking place in two forms or is
focused in two projects one of them is
mapping the neurology and the
biochemical pathways that psychedelics
activate and the second is healing the
personal psyche the wounds that we
collect in life post-traumatic stress
depression a variety of different
conditions I think these are important
first steps in reclaiming these valuable
substances but these are only the first
steps historically and cross-culturally
are experienced with these mind-opening
substances has been that healing the
personal unconscious is only the first
stage of a much longer journey the
psychedelic acts the psychedelic agents
we have access to today are so powerful
that I believe they mark a new frontier
in human experience we can shatter the
shell of the earthbound mind so
consistently
that it becomes hard to describe the
depths of cosmic communion that follow
by taking our life to its limits and
repeatedly shattering those limits we
dissolve for hours at a time into flows
of life that transcend all measures by
entering these states with focus in
clear intent by submitting to the harsh
demands of death and rebirth
we surrender all we have been to become
something utterly new for six or eight
hours at a time a being who can do
things we could never do a being who
could know things that we can never know
as we enter larger and older levels of
existence the universe receives us and
tutors us it rewards our courage with
exquisite intimacy's drawing us into
almost unspeakable ecstasy's of
discovery now my own psychedelic journey
began 40 years when I was a brand new
academic fresh out of graduate school
and I met the work of stanislav grof and
i read these two early books by him
realms of the human unconscious which
was published in 1976 and for me i'm
reading this in 1979 and then quickly
followed by LSD psychotherapy where he
sets out the methodology of working
clinically therapeutically in a very
disciplined structured manner with
psychedelics and integrating them into
the therapeutic process I want to
emphasize that what I'm describing today
is not tripping it's not the
recreational use of psychedelics it's
not the careless engaging of these
states of consciousness
these are amplifiers of consciousness
and when we contain
that amplified consciousness when we
take it into a meditational situation
when we take it into a Kiva completely
isolated from the outside world and use
this energy to drive deeper and deeper
and deeper into consciousness that's
what I'm talking about
that's what Stan Gross work is is
exploring so first let me say a few
words about the protocol that I used and
then describe where this journey that
I'm telling the story of in LSD in the
mind of the universe where it went
most of you who know Stan Groff's work
and I have to assume a certain
familiarity here most of you who know
Stan Gross work know that the
fundamental distinction he drew in their
methodology was modos psycholytic
therapy and high-dose psychedelic
therapy psycholytic therapy was
basically working with lower doses of
psychedelics maybe up to between 40 and
a hundred sessions where you peel the
unconscious layer by layer stripping
down the various levels of trauma or
angst are our pains that we carry bit by
bit in spring robe Hospital in Baltimore
Maryland they developed a different form
of therapy high dose psychedelic therapy
the strategy was quite different there
the strategy was to take an overwhelming
dose a very high-level dose of it
psychedelics about 500 micrograms and
blow through all the levels of
consciousness and try to trigger a
near-death experience they were working
with patients who were going to die
terminally cancer to terminally ill
cancer patients and they wanted to see
if they could trigger a confrontation
with the universe that would give them a
glimpse of where they were going and so
receive reduce the anxiety of death and
they succeeded in doing so when I came
along and I thought well if you could
use psychedelics in this manner safely
three times and their protocol was
limited to a maximum of three doses per
patient if you could do this work safely
three times then you could do it safely
more than
three times and that's what I set out to
do I began a quiet covert because I
couldn't do this work legally I had to
kind of create a barrier between my
professional life
that's a professor of Religious Studies
and my personal life where I began the
systematic work of exploring my own
consciousness using Stan Grof protocols
in psychedelic therapy it ended up being
73 high-dose sessions I worked at 500 to
600 micrograms spread over 20 years I
did four years of work I stopped for six
years for reasons that I explained in
the book and then I did another ten
years of very intense work I did this
all between the time when I was thirty
years old and fifty years old
I stopped in 1999 and it's taken me this
long to digest everything that I had
experienced to put it in an organized
fashion and to basically write it down
in a way that I could share it with
other people and it's not that what's
not important is that I experience these
things
what's important is that these levels of
consciousness are available for everyone
to experience whether through
psychedelics are through non
psychedelics because it's the nature of
the universe itself I want to emphasize
that I'm not a psychologist and I'm not
a therapist I didn't go into this work
seeking healing though I received much
healing I'm a philosopher as trained as
a philosopher and I had a philosophical
agenda and in this I traced this work
back to William James in his varieties
of religious experience where he talks
about his experiences with nitrous oxide
and the essence of this new
philosophical modality is this first
three steps first to push the boundaries
of consciousness as hard as possible or
to push the boundaries of consciousness
second to write a detailed and complete
phenomenologically accurate report of
experience within 24 hours and third
critically analyze your experience
comparing it to other form other bodies
of knowledge and comparing it to the
experiences of other journey errs so a
few words on the methodology oh I chime
there but I I stopped when I got to the
end of my 73 journeys and was beginning
to write it up in the beginning I
thought I was really just doing an
extended course of psychedelic therapy
and it was just psychedelic therapy
nothing new when I got to the end and I
was looking back over the course of
where I went over those 20 years I
realized that this was something
different when you enter into this state
so many times in a controlled fashion it
opens up opportunities that were not
considered in the early years of
psychedelic therapy and it also
represents challenges that were not
encountered in the early years of
psychedelic therapy I recognized that it
needed a new name it needed something to
differentiate it and so the name I gave
it is psychedelic exploration the method
is psychedelic therapy very controlled
circumstances always working with a
sitter always working can in contained
and private environment I shade
earphones listening to a very carefully
curated musical list the difference
between psychedelic therapy and
psychedelic exploration is the number of
sessions for me seventy-three sessions
now I want to add that this is not a
protocol that I recommend honestly I do
not at the time I thought I could do
this work safely and I did do it safely
I always stayed within the limits of
safety but I found that pushing yourself
that hard that deeply into the universe
generated complications that it took all
of my resources
to manage in the course of this time if
I were doing this work over again I
would be much gentler on myself I would
balance high-dose sessions with low-dose
sessions and because LSD tends to be a
high altitude psychedelic I would
balance working with LSD with working
with psilocybin and ayahuasca which are
more body grounded psychedelics I think
a more nuanced approach would produce
better results now I did this work as
systematically as I could I've had very
very detailed records came up with about
400 pages of my psychedelic journal I
kept track of all the dates of course of
my sessions I even looked at the
astrological variables when I began to
understand from Stan and from Rick
tarnis their proposal that there was a
correlation between the outer planets
and what happens in one psychedelic
sessions and I should mention that my
protocol was highly standardized which
allowed me to minimize as many variables
as possible I always had the same sitter
who was a clinical psychologist who
might happen to be married to at the
time was very handy the same sentence
setting the same location the same
substance the same dose level in the
same recording process and I think the
stability of all those variables keeping
them constant it it it contributed to
the clarity and the stability of the
communion that opened in the psychedelic
window that opened in this work now I
want to mention that the story in
diamonds from heaven I always to me it's
diamonds from heaven the story that
opened is not primarily a personal story
I did not I'm not trying to tell a
personal story in fact I dropped out a
lot of the personal details it's a
personal story of course because it's my
experience but it's not primarily a
personal story
these waves represent a series
psychedelic sessions which I have drawn
overlapping to illustrate the point that
these sessions are systematically there
is a conversation that picks up in
continued session by session the small
circles at the beginning and endings of
this of the session represent the
openings and closing of a sessions I
found that things that were relevant to
my personal life tended to occur when I
was leaving time and space and when I
was coming back into time and space but
during the peak hours of a session after
the first twelve or fifteen sessions
during the peak hours of a session I was
usually operating far beyond personal
reality and that's the story which is
the most important story that's the
story which is the philosophically more
interesting story that's the
cosmological story so this story is not
a therapeutic story therapeutic story
the personal details are very important
a cosmological story they're less
important when one does this work
one enters into a regimen in which one
undergoes many deaths and many rebirths
the first death this line in this image
everything below the line is time-space
reality the drop at the end of this line
at this blue image represents our
individual time-space identity our egoic
identity the first circle represents the
death rebirth that takes place when we
transition into spiritual reality ego
death which is gets a lot of attention
in the psychedelic literature what gets
getting less attention so far are the
deeper deaths that take place at deeper
levels of existence now Stan Grof uses
the vocabulary of psychic level
transpersonal experience
subtle levels transpersonal experience
calls a level experience and asks
because the universe tends to reveal
itself in layers one goes through deaths
when one moves into these deeper layers
every time one goes into a deeper level
of conch
everything that one has known up until
that time including your psychedelic
experiences everything you know to be
true including those psychedelic
experiences must be surrendered if they
truly new and novel dimension of
existence is going to open when I was
evaluating all of my experiences one of
the questions I asked myself was okay
there were many many deaths but how many
fundamental core death rebirth
transitions did I go through Oh back up
one circle to describe a transition into
a level of reality is an
oversimplification one goes through
levels within levels within levels these
numbers represent session numbers and
there is kind of an iteration a
repeating going deeper and deeper and
deeper into this level of reality but I
asked how many times how many core
deaths death rebirth cycles did I go
through and identified five and here
they are the first is the death of self
the complete shattering of your
time-space identity letting go of
everything you have known yourself to be
from the moment you're born until that
moment in time ego death
the second was entering into or took
place at the level of the collective
mind the collective psyche the third was
entering into archetypal mind kind of
the domain described by Carl Jung and
Plato but different than either than
portraying the third fourth entering
into causal oneness
now oneness is a theme which emerges
much earlier in the journey but causal
oneness is something quite distinctive
there is no outer boundary at the level
of causal oneness it is the totality of
existence you cannot step outside this
reality to get a perspective on it it is
the totality it exists
moving and living is one in the fifth
level for me is the diamond luminosity
what I call the domain of diamond
luminosity which occupied me for the
last five years of my journey now what
I'd like to do now is shift to the book
and simply take you through or show you
the relationship between these stages
and the chapters of the book the easiest
way to do this is just do it maybe
something like this the death of self
there is the chapter crossing the
boundary of birth and death there's a
methodology chapter first explaining the
methodology in the protocol but then
crossing the boundary of birth and death
exploring collective mind there are
three chapters that address this the
first has to do with the ocean of
suffering the second is deep time in the
soul or the fifth chapter deep time in
the soul and the sixth is initiation
into the universe I'm going to come back
so I'm just going to push through here
archetypal mind there is a chapter
called the greater real of archetypal
reality calls a oneness there is a
chapter that I call a benediction of
blessings Diamond luminosity is
discussed in chapter 10 which is the
largest number of sessions in the book
twenty-six sessions almost a third of
the entire journey but before I talk
about Diamond luminosity I talk about
the birth of the huger human which I
have to drop back and this is a series
of experiences that actually began
during the initiation of the universe
and continued into the diamond
luminosity work and at the end after
everything was said and done when I was
in the last year of this work a final
vision which was the capstone of the
birth of the future human work
so it's impossible to do more than just
touch on a few themes a few descriptors
of these chapters to give a sense of the
trajectory of the work
so first let's do that and then let's
move this over crossing the boundary of
birth and death is the easiest to
summarize because it's the one that's
very thoroughly described in stanislav
grof s-- work
it's the perinatal level of
consciousness entering and transitioning
through the perinatal level when one
enters this work one becomes many people
relive their own birth one has many
profound encounters with death death and
dying we get here by being born we leave
the physical world by dying when one is
pushing the boundaries and taking
consciousness beyond the limits of
physical consciousness birth and death
get all complex ly intertwined until one
goes through a series of profound
existential crises confronting the
meaninglessness of existence the
futility of life understood as a
physical purely a physical structure
until eventually one goes through an
event that usually is described as ego
death in the ninth and tenth sessions
this took me two years in ten sessions
to navigate this process in the end the
universe just snapping like a twig
it everything I knew myself to do to be
at the beginning of the day was
completely reversed and inverted I began
the day as a white male middle class
philosopher obsessed with the meaning of
life in the course of the session for
hours I was immersed in the experience
of women women of color women who were
poor women who had no interest
whatsoever in philosophical exploration
and that's what I was that's what I
became it was a frightening experience
scared me to death but when I let go and
when I allowed myself to become fully a
woman that everything pivoted
and I was taken into the world of women
I experienced hundreds and hundreds of
women I experienced many dimensions of
female experience under the arm of the
great mother I wish every man could have
the experience that I had that day it
truly was a broadening experience and
the message was not reclaim your
femininity or reclaim your former lives
as women because I know I've had former
lives as women the message was where you
are going gender does not exist let go
excuse me
where things went next when I went
through egodeath and I was expecting
things to get lighter
I mean after ego death things are
supposed to get lighter where things
went actually got much worse I entered a
domain of extraordinary suffering
collective suffering a domain of just
unbelievable pain and unbelievable anger
and violence and it this took place over
two years and it deepened systematically
systematically deepening and deepening
deepening until eventually I had the
experience of being becoming in some
fundamental way all of the human beings
of our entire species and gathering
experiences that extended over a hundred
thousand years just a massive at first I
thought this was a deepening of ego
death that somehow pieces of my ego had
slipped through the news and there was I
was dying it was my personal death and
personal transformation that was driving
these processes but it went on for so
long and it took so many it there were
so many beings involved that eventually
I came to a different conclusion the
conclusion I came to was that somehow
something had shifted in my sessions and
the universe was using my sessions to
bring a kind of healing to some portion
of the collective psyche with Ervin
Laszlo I agree that there is an Akashic
memory that holds the memory of
everything that's happened in the
universe and in the collective
unconscious of our species we hold the
entire history of our species we hold
all the wars we hold the memory of all
the terrible things that we've done to
each other and just as our personal
trauma burdens our personal life and
must be cleansed if our personal life is
to be free
likewise our species holds these wounds
and these wounds these these trauma must
be cleansed if our species is going to
function at a higher level so I came to
understand by the end of this process
that something was working to transform
not me but through me to transform some
aspect of the human species and help us
move forward now there are two phases of
a session and working like this there's
a purification phase and then there's an
ecstatic phase and the purification are
suffering phase if you allow it if you
take it as let it take you as far as it
wants to take you if you let it take you
wherever it wants to go even though you
may not understand anything about what's
happening it will eventually culminate
come to a crescendo and it'll you'll go
through a kind of a death and surrender
process and when you go through that you
wake up into a completely different
reality completely unexpected reality
and for the remainder of the session
you're in an ecstatic state of
consciousness and then when you resume
the next session three or four months
later the same process will repeat
itself when I came through the ocean of
suffering let me back up distich I did
the ocean of suffering I said lasted two
years there was a year of work and then
I stopped my work for six years and then
I resumed my work on the other side in
the first year when I was going through
the ocean of suffering when I came
through the sessions I entered this
territory that I call deep time in the
soul I entered systematically for seven
sessions over the course of the year I
entered into a state of consciousness in
which I experienced the totality of my
life start to finish as they completed
hold all the details of my life were
suddenly present I was in the state that
just totally overwhelmed me and
systematically gave me an instruction
on what my life was about how it was
connected to the lives of the people
around me this was the deepest most
moving experience of my life at the time
and yet at the in the first time when I
came back from that experience I could
not remember it it disappeared I had no
reference points in my time-space
consciousness to enter states of to
anchor states of consciousness which
shatter time-space or linear time but
what I found was that when I went back
to this condition in that state of
consciousness a second third and fourth
time I remembered more I was able to
hold on to more I get more coherent a
clear understanding of what was taking
place you can learn how to stay
conscious in levels of consciousness
that you are not able to stay conscious
in before and this is an epistemological
and important epistemological state deep
experiences of the universe are not
simply given to you first you have to
get to that level of reality to have
these experiences but then you have to
train yourself you have to be taught by
the universe how to stay conscious in
levels of consciousness that previously
would not be able to stay conscious in
it takes a great deal of discipline and
training and the universe will train you
to have accurate recall of levels of
consciousness that were previously
completely novel to you after the six
year break that I took and I begin the
work again the ocean of consciousness
began exactly where it had stopped six
years before and it kept getting worse
and worse and worse the fact that it
started exactly where it had stopped
before I think says something about the
intentionality and the and the magnitude
of the intelligence that is guiding
one's work
I always felt myself to be in communion
with an intelligence this intelligence
never took any form I never saw any
images that I would have so
with it there were no deities or no
forms of anything like that
but I always felt myself in dialogue
with a superordinate intelligence when I
began the work after the six year break
The Ecstatic portion of this session
shifted into a completely different
domain I entered into a process in which
I was given a systematic course of
instruction in the structure of reality
at a cosmological level I know this
sounds terribly arrogant and I apologize
for that but that's simply what happened
here are the names of the sessions that
I used that I that I gave these sessions
and I deal with in the book for me I
give all of my sessions a name I try to
identify the pith of what happens in
this session and I give it a name so
that when I see the name it reminds me
of the session because I'm trying to
hold all of my journey in my mind all at
the same time I not only record my
sessions I break them down into bullet
points these are the names of the
sessions that I'm addressing in the
chapter of the initiation in the
universe some of these I discuss in my
book dark night early dawn the master
plan was a series of experiences that
took place which began and this this
continued for years a series of
experiences in which I seemed to be
being taught what was happening to the
human race and where the human race was
going what is the larger developmental
trajectory of humanity once again I
apologize for the apparent arrogance of
that it sounds like ego run amuck but
eventually the ocean of suffering
culminated in the 24th century what is a
24th session which I call healing the
collective moon just an an orgy of
suffering which eventually when it came
to a head and it
it climax it spun me into a level of
reality that was ancient beyond
reckoning it spun me into archetypal
reality and the collective suffering
never reappeared in any subsequent
session
where I went next with into the greater
real of archetypal reality I entered a
reality that was more real than physical
reality it was like Plato's in Plato's
cave where the fellow gets out of Plato
caves in Plato's cave the cave and
enters a real world which is more real
than physical reality which is a very
disorienting experience initially and
when I enter this reality when I entered
archetype of reality for the next year
and a half I stayed in this reality over
in my sessions I went through a death
that was deeper than ego death I went
through a death in which I had to cease
to be a human being in any way shape or
form
my consciousness could no longer operate
within the confines of even our
collective psyche I entered a state of
awareness which was beyond the
collective psyche and it at that level I
was being worked with to be taught how
reality functions at this level the
experiences the sessions that I address
in this chapter are listed here my
experiences here sort of divided into
two levels there was kind of at the high
suddle level the Platonic level in which
I encountered archetypal forms
archetypal beings that were just vast
they were impossible for my mind to wrap
itself around I image them as galaxies
there were billions and billions of
light-years across just impossible to
imagine beings of such magnitude but
these are beings who are the beings who
are responsible for creating time and
space itself beings were responsible for
creating and governing the emergence of
life inside time and space at a lower
level at a lower subtle level I enter
deep into the collective psyche and I
repeatedly had the experience of the
human species as a single organism and
that all of our individual
minds were fractal aspects of its
comprehensive mind and even our bodies
were cells within the unified body of
humanity and that as we heal our minds
and as we heal our bodies we actually
contribute to the developmental history
and the strengthening of the mind of our
species and even the body of our species
when I went into archetypal reality the
deaths that I went through involved
enormous energy fire volcanoes Sun
flares just excruciating ly difficult
experiences of being burned alive and
consumed at this deep level and this I
mentioned this because this is an
important point what I learned was that
as you go deeper into the universe every
deeper level of reality functions at a
higher level of energy this is well
recognized in the deep mystical
traditions a deeper level of
consciousness is a higher level of
energy and if you are going to have
stable experience at that deeper level
of consciousness you must stabilize your
consciousness at that higher level of
energy if your mountain climbing you
have to stabilize dealing with less and
less oxygen and you do that gradually in
your ascent but if you're working in
deep non-ordinary states of
consciousness you must stabilize and
accommodate to greater and greater
levels of energy and you must learn how
to manage those that level of energy
otherwise your experiences there will be
fragmented incoherent and you will not
be able to bring back much of great
detail I began to have experiences here
of reincarnation as a collective
phenomenon now I had previously I've
written a book on reincarnation and the
story I tell there is that reincarnation
is kind
and I thought of it as an individual
soul story that that's the story that's
given in our spiritual traditions that
we are learning hopefully we're making
progress we die we reborn we die reborn
and our individuals choices lead to
hopefully an improving destiny as our
soul matures but now I began to have
experiences of the entire planet as a
single organism growing itself maturing
itself through the pulsating rhythm of
its entire population reincarnating
century after century and I began to
understand our was shown that our
individual karma is all integrated and
part of our collective karma and the
boundary between individual karma an
individual evolution and our collective
karma and our collective individual
evolution came down entirely and that's
the primary theme of dark night early
dawn that there isn't a separate it's
impossible to achieve spiritual
awakening by yourself because there is
no private self to awaken all of our
awakening emerges out of a collective
context and it contributes back into the
collective context in the end we are
always working with the divine for the
good of the entire species and beyond
the species
after the time spent in the in the where
am I yeah and they great a real of
archetype of reality I entered causal
oneness I entered into a period of
tremendous blessings it was a year of
unbelievable blessings these were the
four sessions that I address in this
chapter the forest was an experience of
emptiness Shunyata complete transparency
no self in me no self anywhere in the
world around me the entire world as a
living oneness and when you experience
oneness then you instantly experience no
self the absence of an independent
separate autonomous self when the self
goes the world is one let me jump over
the the diamond the birth of the diamond
soul singing the universal way was an
experience of the deep fertile void the
primal void of not that is the matrix
within which all form emerges Jesus's
blood was an experience of extraordinary
cosmic love being just awash with love
like I had never known anywhere in my
life or anywhere in my previous sessions
but let me just mention diamonds the
birth of the diamond soul because it
comes up later in this experience in
this session I had the experience of my
former lives coming in Fast and Furious
I've done a lot of work through hypnosis
and whatnot on my former lives and
previously I had experienced my life
eleven years before it's a totality from
end of beginning to end but in this
session my former lives were coming in
and they were like right rapping kite
string around a kite spool except that
what the the lies were like filaments of
light and just wrapping them around
around and suddenly they seemed to hit a
critical mass and when they hit a
critical mass they fused and when they
fused there was an explosion of light an
extraordinary diamond like light broke
out of my chest and I was thrown into a
state of consciousness that was both
individual but a higher level of
individual ality than anything I had
ever known and I think what I was being
shown in this experience what I was
being given in this experience was a
taste of where reincarnation is taking
us reincarnation doesn't just result in
the development of a little bit better
this life a little bit better the next
life acquiring more more moral insight
more talents more this more that
eventually sooner or later all of our
experiences all that we have lived and
learned in all of our different lives
eventually all those experiences which
we remember when we died in this you
know we die we expand into the soul we
come back into egoic awareness we expand
into the soul back into a boat Gork
awareness eventually sooner or later all
of our life experience is integrated as
a singular individuality inside time and
space we wake up we wake up to the
cosmic beings that we are that we truly
are we no longer attempted to identify
strictly with our body with our
time-space body
from here the work went into the diamond
luminosity work but before I go into
that I need to backtrack a little bit
and talk about the birth of the future
human I mentioned that in the initiation
the universe work I started having a
series of visions about the evolution of
humanity now this sounds ridiculous at
one level but it's not ridiculous from
within the context of transpersonal
psychology when you shatter your
individual consciousness you don't
simply flip into totality of oneness
consciousness but you open into a
multi-layered
experience of multi-layered universe and
one of the layers of that universe is
the consciousness of our species and
when you open to the consciousness of
your species it's only natural that you
would get insights into the growth of
the species where we came from where we
are and where we are going in my
sessions over five years I was given
repeatedly the same kind of story the
same story different aspects which I
address in this chapter I gathered all
the different visions having to do with
the future of humanity into this chapter
the first is the visions of awakening
six visions describing a profound
awakening of the human psyche and the
human heart a profound what I call the
Great Awakening an awakening of a shift
in the fundamental architecture of the
collective unconscious a year and a half
later after those first series of
sessions I was taken it deep into deep
time beyond personal deep time deep into
collective deep time and I was taken
into
what appeared to be the death and
rebirth of our species in near future I
experienced this I didn't wasn't given
any information about how or when or why
except that it would seem to be
triggered there was a global systems
crisis that's seemed to be being
triggered by a global ecological crisis
and I was given I experienced the fact
of this transformation and I experienced
I was given a lot of insights into some
of the mechanisms of how we would make
this transition as quickly as we need to
do it we have so little time to make the
transition and it has to do with
understanding the collective psyche it
has to do with understanding that our
collective unconscious is a field and
that when this field is hyper stimulated
with the suffering that we are entering
into it becomes so hyper stimulated and
enters into nonlinear or far from
equilibrium conditions and that there is
a certain structural parallel between
what can happen in a psychic field when
it is pushed into nonlinear conditions
and what happens in physical fields when
they are pushed into nonlinear
conditions and we can extrapolate some
of the insights from from physical
fields and understand what might happen
in a psychic field when it is pushed
into nonlinear conditions specifically
the capacity for rapid accelerated
change heightened creativity and the
emergence of a higher self organization
in my visions in my sessions it was
always this is going to happen faster
than anyone can imagine faster than you
can imagine faster than you can imagine
the the pace of our development in the
past was irrelevant to the pace of our
development in the future and it has to
do with what's happening at a deep
collective psychic level
from here I went into the diamond
luminosity work five years of entering
progressively entering into a field of
consciousness that was completely empty
devoid of content and clear clear beyond
imagination just clear clear
breathtakingly luminescent buddhism
calls this dharmakaya the clear light of
absolute reality the clear light from
which physical reality Springs I called
it diamond luminosity my time is running
short I can only go through so much
because I take comfort that all of this
is in the book and you'll be able to go
into greater detail when you see it
out of these four sessions and I went
into this reality only four times in
five years five years of work to spend
four days in this condition it was the
high cost to pay in between these four
sessions as you might imagine there was
intense episodes of purification more
purification more purification because
when you just to touch this reality to
be able to return to it and have stable
experience in this reality you have to
purify yourself of anything in you which
is less than this reality the first to
entrance into the diamond luminosity
took place in sessions 45 and 50 and
then after that we didn't go deeper
didn't go deeper into the diamond
luminosity but the diamond luminosity
began to crunch itself deeper into my
physical body it went that it was as if
this light was restructuring my biology
it was restructuring my mind my emotions
my subtle energy system and actually
restructuring my cell ural and that
cellular anatomy in ways that I couldn't
begin to understand but it was soaking
itself deeper into my physical presence
and I learned from these experiences
that the purpose of this work was not
simply to move into transcendence it
isn't to go into some disembodied
transcendent reality these fields are
beautiful they're magnificent but the
goal of the work was not transcendence
ultimately the goal was to bring this
reality deeper into our physical
existence to let us much of spiritual
reality as possible
enter into our physical awareness and to
transform our lives so that we become an
integrated whole a being that balances
spiritual reality and access to
spirituality and the Magnificent
universe which has been just stated
inside spiritual reality the reality of
time and space
at the end in the very last year of this
work I was given one final vision that
was the capstone of everything that had
gone on before in this final vision the
universe put me through the absolute
worst stripped-down process that it had
ever put me through before it was just a
cascading absolute loss of control
stripped down dying dying burning deeper
and deeper deeper until eventually it
spun me into deeper into deep time than
I had ever been before
and I haven't even tried to explain what
deep time is but again it's in the book
it took me into a state of consciousness
in which I was able to experience a
hundred thousand years kind of as a
simultaneous present I began to
experience time in terms of the dying of
whole life as a pulsation of death and
rebirth of whole I experienced whole
generations dying every few seconds
being born and dying every few seconds
just a radical expansion of the
timeframe this I was given an experience
of what the Buddhists would call samsara
in the raw everything in this world
being born dying conserving growing
integrating being born dying and in this
context I was given three teachings
which I'll just mention the first was
that it showed me that human beings are
actually built for speed we are built
for accelerated evolution and it has to
do with the fact that each of our lives
are are so short a hundred years merely
a hundred years but underneath this
repeated reincarnation there is a
gathering of our knowledge a gathering
of our of our experience and
periodically this gathered knowledge
flips and becomes a new foundation
all subsequent incarnations and from
this expanded time horizon I was I could
see that human beings were actually
designed for accelerated evolution we
have a tendency to think human nature
this human nature that to statically we
have to think more dynamically more
open-ended ly in terms if we want to
experience ourselves and experience the
human race from this perspective of the
creative intelligence it's behind it all
the other two experiences I mentioned
was I experienced the universe as a
diamond maker I experienced this
reincarnation all these the cycling of
reincarnation and I experienced sparks
of diamond light shooting off
periodically into the deep space into
the deep sky and I understood that the
universe is making diamonds and the
Diamonds the distillation of all of our
experience here into these crystalline
pure forms that allow us to enter into
dimensions of spiritual reality that we
could never survive in if we hadn't gone
through this hyper concentration
hyperaccelerated developmental process
which is taking place inside time and
space and lastly I was given an
experience of the future human taking
deep and they allowed to experience for
a short period of time the human being
that nature is giving birth to in this
long developmental process such an
exquisite being just touching it for
only a few minutes so helpful just
totally expanded my understanding of
human potential and showed us it's very
important I think that we have an
understanding that we have a vision of
where we are going historically because
as the shadows darken as we enter deeper
into this historical crisis that we are
entering into now as we enter the
night of our collective soul we could
lose hope we could think that it's all
over we could think that we are somehow
being punished for the sins of our past
we could think that it's just we're
entering into an extinction event but
really we are in labor
we have been gestating for hundreds of
thousands of years Nature has been
gestating us gestation is a long process
birth is a relatively short process
labor is a very very intense and painful
process but at the end it gives birth to
something wonderful something new I
think that's what's happening
historically after hundreds of thousands
of years we are entering into labor and
the crisis that we are entering at a
global stage is synchronistically
connected to a developmental crisis that
is taking place inside each one of us we
carry the entire history of the world in
our farmer lives in our heart in our
soul as the plant is struggling to
become one and everything that that
involves we are working to become one
coherent integrated soul so that there
is a relationship between this building
tension in the global order and a
building tension inside our
psychological order as we give birth to
a new species on this planet and as we
give birth to a new center of
consciousness within our own person
again what is important is not that I
had these experiences and I could be
wrong on many different levels but what
I think is important is that many many
people are having these experiences as
Stan Grof is documented and what's
important is that these levels of
consciousness are there for all of us to
explore and again I do not recommend
that people explore them as I explored
them I truly don't I would not wish
anyone to go through some of the things
I went through in order to enter these
domains I would be gentler
we use a wider complement of experiences
of techniques and technologies but they
are there and they are there frost
explore there is this massive
information field which we can enter
suddenly and temporarily or we can just
sit here and open up and let it enter us
and soak into our bones thank you very
much
[Applause]
[Music]